




Dr. Ann Gates













 

Ann Quiroz Gates

                    Chair Computer Science, Dept. Computer Science
					The University of Texas at El Paso
                    
Contact Information:
The University of Texas at El Paso
					   500 W. University CCSB 3.1002
 					   El Paso, Texas  79902
					   Office: +1.915.747.5480; +1.915.747.7689 (direct)
					   Fax: +1.915.747.5030
					   agates@utep.edu
					
Biography: 

                    Dr. Ann Q. Gates is Professor and Chair of the Computer Science 
                    Department at the University of Texas at El Paso. Her areas of 
                    research are in software engineering and cyberinfrastructure with an 
                    emphasis on workflows, ontologies, and formal software specification. 
                    Gates directs the NSF-funded Cyber-ShARE Center that focuses on 
                    developing and sharing resources through cyber-infrastructure to 
                    advance research and education in science. She was a founding member 
                    of the NSF Advisory Committee for Cyber-infrastructure.  Gates served 
                    on the IEEE-Computer Society (IEEE-CS) Board of Governors 2004-2009.  
                    In addition, she chairs the IEEE-CS Educational Activity Board’s 
                    Committee of Diversity and External Activities and has established a 
                    model for specialized student chapters focused on leadership, 
                    entrepreneurship, and professional development.  She is a member of 
                    the Computer Science Accreditation Board (2011-2013).  Gates leads 
                    the Computing Alliance for Hispanic-Serving Institutions (CAHSI) and 
                    is a founding member of the National Center for Women in Information 
                    Technology (NCWIT).  She received the 2015 A. Nico Habermann Award, the 
						  2010 Anita Borg Institute Social Impact Award, the 2009 Richard A. Tapia 
						  Achievement Award for Scientific Scholarship, Civic Science, and Diversifying 
						  Computing and was named to Hispanic Business magazine’s 100 Influential Hispanics 
                    in 2006 for her work on the Affinity Research Group model.
                    

                    For further details, please view 
                    my complete CV.
                    
Research Expertise

					Gates directs the NSF-funded Cyber-ShARE Center of Excellence 
					("Cyberinfrastructure for Sharing resources to Advance Research and 
					Education"). Cyber-ShARE's mission is to advance education and 
					research through cyberinfrastructures that support information 
					exchange and integration, as well as collaborative interdisciplinary 
					research. As national leaders in the study of collaborative science 
					and engineering, the Center has developed and applied models of 
					team-based, cooperative learning, interdisciplinary teamwork, and 
					knowledge integration and management. She also conducts research in 
					software engineering. Her research focuses on development of 
					technology for monitoring software correctness and data quality that 
					can be transferred to both public and private industry. Specifically, 
					the focus is on extending and defining software engineering methods 
					and developing usable technology to support development of complex 
					systems that are of high consequence, i.e., failure of the system will 
					result in loss of life, equipment, security, or financial losses. 
					Using properties to monitor systems can assist in detecting conflicts 
					and errors during software execution or data acquisition.                    
				    
Education Expertise:

					Gates has led the development of the Affinity Research Group (ARG) 
					model for structuring research groups that involve undergraduate and 
					graduate students. The goal of the model is to provide an environment 
					that supports persistence and participation of students from 
					traditionally underrepresented groups. The ARG experience advances 
					the scholarship of discovery and, as a byproduct, instills in many 
					students the desire to continue their education. The benefits of ARG 
					are that students learn the skills and strategies that will make them 
					effective leaders and successful in research, academia, and industry, 
					and they gain experience with making informed decisions about 
					technical matters and working in teams to solve complex problems. 
					With rapid, continual changes in technology and the omnipresence of 
					computers in our daily interactions, it is critical that undergraduate 
					students attain appreciation for life-long learning and a higher 
					level of competence in technical areas. The university and departmental 
					goals of providing innovative student programs, educating people 
					in the region who have limited economic and educational opportunities, 
					and preparing students to become professionals and leaders are met 
					through development, refinement, and application of the ARG model. 
					

					In addition, Gates leads the 
					Computing Alliance of Hispanic-Serving Institutions (CAHSI) that 
					focuses on the recruitment, retention and advancement of Hispanics 
					in computing through shared effective practices.  
					
Courses:

					Dr. Gates teaches the capstone courses:  CS4310 and CS4311. 
					






Projects

Computing Alliance of Hispanic-Serving Instituions
Affinity Research Group
Cyber-ShARE Center
I3


Tag Cloud



                           advance
                   

                           arg
                   

                           cahsi
                   

                           chair
                   

                           collaborative
                   

                           complex
                   

                           computing
                   

                           cyber-share
                   

                           cyberinfrastructure
                   

                           development
                   

                           education
                   

                           engineering
                   

                           experience
                   

                           expertise
                   

                           founding
                   

                           goal
                   

                           group
                   

                           hispanics
                   

                           industry
                   

                           information
                   

                           institutions
                   

						   interdisciplinary
                   

                           leaders
                           

                           learning
                           

                           research
                           

                           resources
                           

                           scholarship
                           

                           science
                           

                           sharing
                           

                           software
                           

                           students
                           

                           support
                           

                           systems
                           

                           technology
                           


Photo Gallery
Video Gallery












