






Deepak K. Tosh




























Toggle navigation




Deepak K. Tosh




Home


Research

Projects
Publications



Lab


Teaching


News


Misc

Interesting Links














Deepak K. Tosh, Ph.D.
 
            Assistant Professor 
            Department of Computer Science 
            University of Texas at El Paso 
            500 W. University Avenue 
            El Paso, TX 79968-0518
        


Biography


          I am an assistant professor in Computer Science at the University of Texas at El Paso. Before that I was a Cybersecurity Researcher at the DoD Sponsored Center of Excellence in Cybersecurity, Norfolk State University (NSU), Norfolk, Virginia. During that time, I have closely collaborated with researchers from Air Force Research Lab and Army Research Lab to establish data provenance mechanisms in cloud computing in addition to addressing research challenges in the arena of distributed system security, Blockchain, cyber-threat information sharing, cyber-insurance, and Internet of Battlefield Things (IoBT). I was appointed shortly as a postdoctoral researcher at the Tennessee State Univerity, where I worked with Dr. Sachin Shetty in the CyberViz Laboratory. I have been collaborating with him since then focussing on research topics such as: distributed consensus models in Blockchain technology, cyber-resiliency in battlefield environment, and various practical issues in cloud computing security. I have received my Ph.D. in Computer Science and Engineering from University of Nevada, Reno, under the supervision of Dr. Shamik Sengupta. My dissertation was focussed on designing market based models to enable cybersecurity information sharing among organizations. I received my masters in Computer Science from University of Hyderabad, India in 2012. My master thesis addressed the issue of cognitive radio transmission parameter adaptation problem using multi-objective optimization techniques.
        




Research Interests

Cybersecurity: 
            Security and privacy in cybersecurity information exchange (CYBEX), Distributed system security, Blockchain, Data provenance, Internet of Things (IoT) security, CYBEX Incentivization Models, Cyber-Insurance, Risk assessment, Network security
        
Inter-disciplinary Research: Game theory, Mechanism design, Cooperative games, Evolutionary and swarm-intelligence based optimization, Multi-agent learning
          




Organizational Duties and Activities

TPC member for IEEE ISC2-BLESS Workshop and 5G-SP Workshop
Reviewer for IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics & Security, 2017, 2018
Reviewer for IEEE Transactions on Services Computing (TSC), Elsevier Journal of Computer Communication, 2018














Email me



      Deepak K. Tosh
       • 
      2019

      

      
      


      Theme by
      beautiful-jekyll













