







		Eric Freudenthal
	

















Skip to main content









MinerAlert













Search pages and people














Toggle navigation














Search










About 
Undergraduate 
Graduate 
People
Research
Support
Partners
News



Search pages and people



My UTEP


Resources for 
INFORMATION FOR:



Students


Faculty & Staff


Alumni


Parents





Quick Links 
            










X

Quick Links



Library


Parking & Maps


UTEP News


Events


Student Affairs


Business Affairs


Employment Opportunities


University Bookstore


Technology Support








Computer Science







Main Content




UTEP
            Computer Science
    
            People
    











UTEP
            Computer Science
    
            People
    





Eric Freudenthal



Associate Professor in Computer Science· The University of Texas at El Paso· efreudenthal@utep.edu

 
 
Associate Professor in Computer Science (2004)University of Texas, El Paso, TX
Prior to joining UTEP's Computer Science faculty, Dr. Eric Freudenthal was an Associate Research Scientist at New York University's Courant Institute.
Technical research investigates techniques for providing secure and self-managed services that are responsive to changes in operating context. His educational research examines the design of creative activities that utilize programming to motivate analytical engagement with mathematics.
 




 
                    Student appointments
                



  For advising, please check my calendar and request a 20 minute appointment with me (see below).  My "drop in" office hours during the spring and fall semesters are on

Mondays & Thursdays 2-3 PM on days when school is in session

However, I'll depart after 15 minutes if nobody is there (and nobody is expected).
Even if you want to meet with me during office hours, I encourage you to send me an email indicating day, time, and reason for the appointment.
If you'd like to meet for advising, or if my office hours inconvenient for you, please follow the directions below to request an appointment at another time:

Search my online calendar for mutually convenient times during normal business hours. (I'm not generally available late at night and on weekends)
Send an  email indicating your motivation for scheduling this meeting, and (if you're comfortable), a phone number I can use to reach you should I be delayed or need to negotiate a different meeting time.






 
                    Research
                



I have active research efforts in both computer systems and STEM education.
Systems Research
I lead the  Robust Autonomic Systems Group. Present thrusts are:

Hardware-software energy-senstivie co-design of high performance systems.
Strategies for improving caches and memory allocation in garbage-collected mobile systems.

I tend to focus on the design of robust but simple protocols that effectively respond to system dynamism. Contributions include scalable coordination primitives for parallel computers and techniques for implementing security, indexing, load-balancing, and locality-aware redirection for coalitions of self-managed autonomous (peer-to-peer) systems. I am one of the creators of Coral-CDN, a locality aware, scalable, and self-managed content distribution network.        
Education Research
I lead the iMPaCT-STEM educational research project (http://impact-stem.org). This multi-disciplinary effort has developed a family of learning activities that leverage graphical programming to engage high school and college students in the examination of principles underlying algebra, calculus, and Newtonian mechanics.   
With support from NSF, DHS, TI, and Microsoft, we are developing "iMPaCT" (Media Propelled Computational Thinking) learning modules that quickly (generally in less than an hour) introduce students to programming and engage them in the exploration of computer graphics and simulations of kinematics. The intended learning outcomes include

A holistic understanding of programming and its relationship to math, science, and engineering.
Deepened conceptual understandings of the mathematical foundations of calculus, high school algebra, kinematics, and electrodynamics.

Most attendees in iMPaCT activities are highly engaged - independent of gender, ethnicity, and intended academic major. These findings suggest that many more students could be attracted to study science and engineering through problem solving activities that build conceptual understandings underlying math and physics. iMPaCT has spawned several sub-projects

iMPaCT-CS0: an introduction to computing suitable for integration with an entering students program.
iMPaCT-CS1: a first semester course in programming that begins with graphical programming in Jython and transitions to Java that has learning outcomes equivalent to a traditional Java-based CS-1 course.
iMPaCT-STEM: A family of programming activities designed for integration into otherwise unmodified math and science classes that reinforce and contextualize those courses primary learning outcomes while inadvertantly introducing all to the foundational ideas of programming.

Visit our web http://www.impact-stem.org.





 
                    Areas of Interest
                



 Specific interests in techniques for:

 Detection and maintenance of localized clusters.
 Construction self-organizing ad-hoc coalitions of systems that provide security.
 High performance and robustness.
 Dynamic modulation of service quality and access levels based on connectivity and level-of-authorization.
 Decentralized access control of systems that expose and therefore are able to reason over partial transitive trust.






 
                    Contact Information
                



Office: Room 3.0424, Chemistry and Computer Science building (at the corner of Hawthorne Street and Rim Road)
Shared Fax: (915)747-5030
Work Phone: (915)747-6954
E-mail:efreudenthal @ utep.edu
Cell Phone: (915)317-6246




            For more information, visit my website. 

















People


            Faculty and Staff
    
            Student Employees
    
            Instructional Assistants
    
            Peer Leaders
    
            Teaching Assistants
    



Advising


Course Schedule


Internships


Opportunities


Organizations


Undergraduate Catalog


Graduate Catalog



Connect With Us

The University of Texas at El Paso
Department of Computer Science

Chemistry & Computer Science Building, Room 3.1100

500 W University Ave

El Paso, Texas 79902
 
E: csfrontdesk@utep.edu


    P: (915)613-1982MXP: +52 66 2690 3182
            
    F: (915) 747-5030
    







Location
 

Donate


Give Now


















THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT EL PASO


CARES Act Compliance


Clery Crime Statistics


Emergency Information


Employment


Mental Health Resources




Public Course Information


Report Fraud


Required Links


State Reports


Texas Veterans Portal




Title IX Reporting


Title IX Sexual Misconduct Policy


UT System


Web Accessibility


Web Privacy Policy




500 West University Avenue |
El Paso, TX 79968 |
915-747-5000 |

SITE FEEDBACK










Modal


X















