





Monika Akbar







Monika Akbar





Home

Publications
Teaching
Contact















					Assistant Professor 
Department of Computer Science 
University of Texas at El Paso
firstInitialLastname AT utep DOT edu
Phone: 747-5883 

DBLP  |
Google Scholar |  RG |
 Linked In 
[CV]



I am an Assistant Professor of the Department of  Computer Science at The University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP). I joined the department in Fall 2017. Before that, I was a Research Assistant Professor and the Assistant Director of CyberShare Center of Excellence at UTEP.
              
            I graduated with a PhD from the Department of Computer Science at Virginia Tech. I received my MS from  Montana State University-Bozeman in Computer Science and BS from Shahjalal University of Science and Technology in Computer Science and Engineering.

                       
               
I work on broad areas of data science, specially information retrieval and integration, data mining, prediction, and recommendation. I use data science concepts to address computational challenges in application areas of cyber-security, health informatics, and gamification. 
                       
                       I am looking for highly motivated graduate students who would like to work in these areas. Please email me if you are interested.
              
 Fundings Awards 

 Federal grants


                     Our recent NSF STEM+C proposal on building A Research-Practice Partnership (RPP) for Developing Computational Thinking through Linguistically and Culturally Relevant CS Curriculum in Middle School was awarded funding in Fall 2019.          
                

 
                    An NSF IUSE proposal (Collaborative Research: Active Learning for Out-of-class Activities to Improve Student Success), in collaboration with the Winston-Salem State University, was awarded funding in Fall 2017.
                


NSF SUPPLEMENT through CyberShARE and the Digital Library Research Laboratory at Virginia Tech to investigate recommendation systems and the management of essential metadata and relationships needed to integrate and analyze information collected from disparate sources in 2016 .
                

 Industry and Internal grants 


                    The CS4HS (Special Topics) grant to introduce computing concepts to students in several El Paso area middle schools in El Paso, using a game-based learning platform named Sol y Agua.
                    

We offered  the workshop in collaboration with Region 19 in Spring 2019.
                        



                    Support from the Mike Loya Center for Innovation and Commerce (MLCIC) for investigating border health information exchange (BHIX) in Fall 2018.
                

 
                    Co-PI on exploreCSR Google Grant - a Pilot Program for Undergraduate Computer Science Research workshop led by Dr. Martine Ceberio in Fall 2018.
                











 










