
















































David Novick | Expertise Connector





 Enhancements    








HELP






























 

 
















 

PEOPLE
CENTERS
COMMUNITIES
RESEARCH STORIES







 












            FIND          










To prevent automated spam submissions leave this field empty.

 

























David Novick
 












   








E230


 Engineering Building


El Paso Texas, 79968


novick@utep.edu


(915) 747-6031



Web Site









 CENTERS AND COMMUNITIES



Mike Loya Center for Innovation and Commerce




 

NETWORKS



















  









David G Novick 




Professor, Engineering Education and Leadership - Computer Science - Computational Science - Political Science - University Studies/Entering Student Program





David Novick's research focuses on interactive systems and, especially, building rapport in multimodal conversation. Current research projects include (1) making conversations with intelligent virtual agents more effective through modeling and implementing conversation control acts and (2) integrating entrepreneurship into engineering  education. Dr. Novick's research on multimodal conversation explores computational pragmatics, especially nonverbal behaviors associated with conversation. Dr. Novick and his students have developed intelligent virtual agents that converse with humans in highly engaging games or simulations, which provide a way to study what affects the development of rapport between humans and agents.
















 




KEYWORDS





Intelligent virtual agentsHuman-computer interactionArtificial intelligenceUser experienceInnovation and entrepreneurship





 











CUSTOMIZED LINKS Bepress Selected WorksPatentsFeatured awardsProQuest/Pivot funding opportunities







 











IN THE NEWS  World Reacts to UTEP Professor's Optical Illusions Advanced aGent Engagement Team (AGENT) explores the world of virtual reality UTEP Computer Science Department Develops Award-Winning Interactive Agent System





 










 





 





 © 2013 The University of Texas at El Paso  |  Terms Of Use  |  Privacy Statement  |  Questions or Comments about this site? Click here





Some of the content on this web site includes information taken from UTEP's Digital Measures and University Communications.
This material is based upon work supported in part by the Office of Research and Sponsored Projects and the National Science Foundation under Grant No. DUE-0963648 and CREST Grant No. HRD-1242122. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation (NSF).












