
















































Oscar Mondragon Campos | Expertise Connector





 Enhancements    








HELP






























 

 
















 

PEOPLE
CENTERS
COMMUNITIES
RESEARCH STORIES







 












            FIND          










To prevent automated spam submissions leave this field empty.

 

























Oscar Mondragon Campos
 












   








CCSB 3.1020


 Engineering Building


El Paso Texas, 79968


oamondragon@utep.edu


(915) 747-8015













 CENTERS AND COMMUNITIES



Cyber-Security
Smart Cities




  









Oscar Adrian Mondragon Campos 




Clinical Associate Professor, Computer Science





Dr. Mondragon has been working as a senior Consultant, guiding companies in their implementations of quality models such as CMMI, PSP, TSP, AIM, and MDDAP. Dr. Mondragon is a certified Intro to CMMI instructor, PSP Instructor and TSP coach and MDDAP ATM. Dr. Mondragon facilitates process improvement projects and develops skills in project management, project monitoring, risk management, supplier management, requirements engineering, configuration management, measurement and analysis, design, testing, process and product quality assurance, verification and validation, process definition, process performance, and quantitative project management. He coaches self-management teams, develops team building skills, develops defect removal skills for individuals and teams, carry gap analysis and prepares engineering process groups. He was a core committee member for the IEEE CSDP certification and he is an IEEE senior member. Dr. Mondragon is a clinical associate professor in the Computer Science department at the College of Engineering. He is director of the Master of Science in Software Engineering. He has published conference papers and journals in formal requirements’ specification, requirements verification, property specification patterns, requirements modeling, process improvement, SEI AIM method, TSP for services, Service levels, and CMMI and INCOSE Handbook mappings. Dr. Mondragon research interest is formal specification, verification & validation, requirements engineering, process improvements in small settings, adapting TSP for systems/software engineering and service systems, and assessing processes in medical devise organizations.
















 




KEYWORDS





Process ImprovementQuality AssuranceVerification and ValidationFormal MethodsProcess Performance ModelsRequirements EngineeringSelf-managed TeamsMedical devisesQuantitative Process ManagementView more





 











CUSTOMIZED LINKS Featured awardsProQuest/Pivot funding opportunities







 











IN THE NEWS  UTEP and Community Partners Awarded $1.5M NSF Grant to Improve Quality of Life for Senior Citizens through Technology





 










 





 





 © 2013 The University of Texas at El Paso  |  Terms Of Use  |  Privacy Statement  |  Questions or Comments about this site? Click here





Some of the content on this web site includes information taken from UTEP's Digital Measures and University Communications.
This material is based upon work supported in part by the Office of Research and Sponsored Projects and the National Science Foundation under Grant No. DUE-0963648 and CREST Grant No. HRD-1242122. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation (NSF).












